Salt, a common substance, chemically consisting mainly of sodium chloride (NaCl), used extensively as a condiment and preservative. 
Salt, one of the compounds formed from the reaction of an acid with a base, where a positive ion replaces a hydrogen of the acid.
Salt, a salt marsh, a saline marsh at the shore of a sea.
Salt, a sailor (also old salt). 
Salt, randomly chosen bytes added to a plaintext message prior to encrypting or hashing it, in order to render brute-force decryption more difficult.
Salt, a person who seeks employment at a company in order to (once employed by it) help unionize it.
Salt, flavour; taste; seasoning. 
Salt, piquancy; wit; sense. 
Salt, a dish for salt at table; a salt cellar. 
Salt, skepticism and common sense. 
Salt, indignation; outrage; arguing.
Samuel Pepys: I out and bought some things; among others, a dozen of silver salts.
Shakespeare: Though we are justices and doctors and churchmen [&#8230;] we have some salt of our youth in us.
Moby-Dick: I never go as a passenger; nor, though I am something of a salt, do I ever go to sea as a Commodore, or a Captain, or a Cook.
The Scarlet Letter: Around the door are generally to be seen, laughing and gossiping, clusters of old salts.
Soupes dorye.: Take gode almaunde mylke [&#8230;] caste &#254;her-to Safroun an Salt [&#8230;].
SALT: Strategic Arms Limitations Talks.
Saalt: North Frissan word meaning salt.
Salt is an ancient town in Northern Jordan; it was once the capital of the territory.
Salt Lake City is the capital of, and largest city in, the U.S. state of Utah.
Salt is a compact village three miles northeast of Stafford, England.
Salt is a Python-based open-source configuration management software and remote execution engine.
Syntactic Salt is a feature in some programming languages designed to make it harder to write bad code.
Salt (1965 film), a Bulgarian short documentary by Eduard Zahariev.
Salt (1985 film), North Korean tragedy film.
Salt (1987 film), an Indian Malayalam film about the Muslim practice of Male polygamy.
Salt (2006 film), a thriller about an abusive husband, and the revenge his wife takes on him.
Salt (2009 film), a short documentary about Murray Frederick's annual solo trips to the salt flats of Lake Eyre in South Australia.
Salt (2010 film), an action film starring Angelina Jolie about Evelyn Salt, who is accused of being a Russian sleeper agent and goes on the run to try to clear her name.
Salt is a municipality in the comarca of the Giron&#232;s in Catalonia, Spain. It is situated on the right bank of the Ter next to Girona, with which it was merged from 1974 to 1984.
Salt is a block in Almora district, Uttarakhand, India.
Salt is a novel by British science fiction author Adam Roberts about colonists from Earth surviving betrayal and the dangers of a sterile salt environment.
Salt: A World History is a book by American journalist and writer Mark Kurlanksky.
Salt was a Swedish grunge alternative rock band, who had one hit single from the album Auscultate, "Bluster", in the United States in 1996. "So" was released as a second single from Auscultate but did not achieve the same level of success.
SALT is a Swedish barbershop quartet that won the Sweet Adelines International Quartet Championship for 2007 in Las Vegas, Nevada in October 2006.
Salt is a studio album by Forget Cassettes on the Theory 8 Records label.
Salt is the first album by singer and composer Lizz Wright, released in 2003 (see 2003 in music). It reached number two on the Billboard Top Contemporary Jazz chart.
Salt is a 12" by Venetian Snares. It is his first overseas release, on the Hecate-run Zhark International record label.
Salt is the fifth full-length album by Danish band Wuthering Heights. It has been received with great reviews from the fans and the press. The album takes themes that involve the sea, and other myths and tales from the sailor's culture.
S.A.L.T., a song by The Orb on the album Orblivion.
SALTS: Sail and Life Training Society.
SALT is a Turkish contemporary art institution.
Salt Grammar School, Bradford, England.
Salt Mobile SA, a Swiss mobile provider
Salt Publishing is an independent publisher whose origins date back to 1990 when poet John Kinsella launched Salt Magazine in Western Australia.
Salts F.C. is a soccer team in Saltaire, West Yorkshire, England, UK
Salts Healthcare Ltd is a UK medical manufacturer.
Savior's Alliance for Lifting the Truth, a sexual abstinence organization.
Veruca Salt is a character in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.
Gloria Salt, a character in the novel Pigs Have Wings.
Saltiness is one of the basic human tastes.
Salt is one of the oldest and most ubiquitous food seasonings, and salting is an important method of food preservation.
Salt is essential for life in general.
Some of the earliest evidence of salt processing dates to around 6,000 BC, when people living in the area of present-day Romania boiled spring water to extract salts.
Salt became an important article of trade and was transported by boat across the Mediterranean Sea, along specially built salt roads, and across the Sahara on camel caravans. The scarcity and universal need for salt have led nations to go to war over it and use it to raise tax revenues.
Until the 20th century, of salt blocks were the basic currency in Abyssinia.
The amazing Salar de Uyuni (the world's largest salt flat at 4,000 square miles) in Bolivia becomes mirrorlike when a thin layer of water lies on top. This reflectivity makes it a very useful tool for calibrating scientific equipment from outer space.
The first written reference to salt is found in the Book of Job, recorded about 2,250 BC.
Ancient Britons carried their crude salt by pack train from Cheshire to Southern England where they often were forced to delay their journey until the high tides of the Thames River subsided.
By the time of the Hebrew Book of Ezra (550 to 450 BC), salt from a person was synonymous with drawing sustenance, taking pay, or being in that person's service. At that time, salt production was strictly controlled by the monarchy or ruling elite. Depending on the translation of Ezra 4:14, the servants of King Artaxerxes I of Persia explain their loyalty variously as "because we are salted with the salt of the palace" or "because we have maintenance from the king" or "because we are responsible to the king".
<p>A Michigan legal act states</p><p>1. The people of the State of Michigan enact, that all companies or corporations formed or that may be formed for the purpose of boring for and manufacturing salt in this State, and any and all individuals engaged or to be engaged in such manufacture, shall be entitled to the benefits of the provisions of this act.</p><p>2. All property, real and personal, used for the purpose mentioned in the first section of this act, shall be exempt from taxation for any purpose.</p><p>3. There shall be paid from the treasury of this State, as a bounty, to any individual, or company, or corporation, the sum of 10 cents for each and every bushel of salt manufactured by such individual, company, or corporation, from water obtained by boring in this State: Provided, that no such bounty shall be paid until such individual, company, or corporation shall have at least 5000 bushels of salt manufactured.</p>
Salt is used in many industrial processes including the manufacture of polyvinyl chloride, plastics, and paper pulp.
Of the annual global production of around two hundred million tonnes of salt, about 6% is used for human consumption.
Edible salt is sold in forms such as sea salt and table salt which usually contains an anti-caking agent and may be iodised to prevent iodine deficiency.
Sodium is an essential nutrient for human health via its role as an electrolyte and osmotic solute.
Excessive salt consumption may increase the risk of cardiovascular diseases, such as hypertension, in children and adults.
The World Health Organization recommends that adults should consume less than 2,000 mg of sodium, equivalent to 5 grams of salt per day.
What is now thought to have been the first city in Europe is Solnitsata, in Bulgaria, which was a salt mine, providing the area now known as the Balkans with salt since 5400 BC. Even the name Solnitsata means "salt works".
While people have used canning and artificial refrigeration to preserve food for the last hundred years or so, salt has been the best-known food preservative, especially for meat, for many thousands of years.
Evidence indicates that Neolithic people of the Precucuteni Culture were boiling the salt-laden spring water through the process of briquetage to extract the salt as far back as 6050 BC.
There is more salt in animal tissues, such as meat, blood, and milk, than in plant tissues. Nomads who subsist on their flocks and herds do not eat salt with their food, but agriculturalists, feeding mainly on cereals and vegetable matter, need to supplement their diet with salt.
In the Middle East, salt was used to ceremonially seal an agreement, and the ancient Hebrews made a "covenant of salt" with God and sprinkled salt on their offerings to show their trust in him.
With the spread of civilization, salt became one of the world's main trading commodities.
An ancient practice in time of war was salting the earth: scattering salt around in a defeated city to prevent plant growth.
In the early years of the Roman Empire, roads were built for the transportation of salt imported at Ostia to the capital.
In Africa, salt was used as currency south of the Sahara.
The Tuareg have traditionally maintained routes across the Sahara especially for the transportation of salt by Azalai (salt caravans). The caravans still cross the desert from southern Niger to Bilma, although much of the trade now takes place by truck.
The word salary comes from the Latin word for salt.
Wars have been fought over salt.
During the American Revolution, the British captured saltworks and cut off supply to deny salt to the Americans.
The voyages of Christopher Columbus are said to have been financed from salt production in southern Spain.
The oppressive salt tax in France was one of the causes of the French Revolution. After being repealed, this tax was reimposed by Napoleon when he became emperor to pay for his foreign wars, and was not finally abolished until 1945.
In 1930, Mahatma Gandhi led at least 100,000 people on the "Dandi March" or "Salt Satyagraha", in which protesters collected their own salt from the sea thus defying British rule and avoiding paying the salt tax.
China produces 22.48% of the world's salt at 62,158,000 metric tonnes.
The ancient Egyptians, Greeks and Romans invoked their gods with offerings of salt and water and some people think this to be the origin of Holy Water in the Christian faith.
In Aztec mythology, Huixtocihuatl was a fertility goddess who presided over salt and salt water.
In Jainism, devotees lay an offering of raw rice with a pinch of salt before a deity to signify their devotion and salt is sprinkled on a person's cremated remains before the ashes are buried.
Molten salt is being considered as a viable alternative to water for transferring heat produced by fission in nuclear reactors. This eliminates the risk of producing explosive hydrogen.
Before the advent of the modern internal combustion engine and earth-moving equipment, mining salt was one of the most expensive and dangerous of operations, due to rapid dehydration caused by constant contact with the salt (both in the mine passages and scattered in the air as salt dust), among other problems borne of accidental excessive sodium intake. While salt is now plentiful, until the Industrial Revolution it was difficult to come by, and salt mining was often done by slave or prison labor and life expectancy among those sentenced was low.
In ancient Rome, salt on the table was a mark of a rich patron; those who sat nearer the host were "above the salt", and those less favored were "below the salt".
Ancient China was among the earliest civilizations in the world with cultivation and trade of salt mining. They first discovered natural gas when they excavated rock salt. The people in Zigong, Sichuan excavated natural gas and used it to boil a rock salt solution. The ancient Chinese gradually mastered and advanced the techniques of producing salt. Salt mining was an arduous task for the ancient Chinese, who faced geographical and technological constraints. Salt was mainly extracted from the sea, and salt works in the coastal areas in late imperial China equated to more than 80 percent of national production. In conjunction with this, the Chinese made use of natural crystallization of salt lakes and constructed some artificial evaporation basins close to shore. As salt was a necessity of life for human civilization, salt mining played a pivotal role as one of the most important sources of Imperial Chinese government revenue and state development.
Most modern salt mines are privately operated or operated by large multinational companies such K+S, AkzoNobel, Cargill, and Compass Minerals.
A salt dome is a type of structural dome formed when a thick bed of evaporite minerals (mainly salt, or halite) found at depth intrudes vertically into surrounding rock strata, forming a diapir. It is important in petroleum geology because salt structures are impermeable and can lead to the formation of a stratigraphic trap.
A salt lake or saline lake is a landlocked body of water that has a concentration of salts (typically sodium chloride) and other dissolved minerals significantly higher than most lakes. In some cases, salt lakes have a higher concentration of salt than sea water.
The pairing of salt and pepper as table accessories dates to seventeenth-century French cuisine, which considered pepper (distinct from herbs such as fines herbes) the only spice that did not overpower the true taste of food.
Rogue, one of the first graphical video games involves an adventurer exploring a dungeon with a layout like that of a salt mine.
Bacillus Safensis is the only bacterial strain known to grow noticeably faster in a micro-gravity environment and survive spacecraft clean room procedures. Due to this it may have been transferred to Mars by the Opportunity and Spirit rovers. B. Safensis can hitch such rides because of its resistances: UV radiation, gamma radiation, and salt.
Cardona is a mining town in Catalonia, Spain. It is next to a hill of rock salt known as Muntanya de Sal. The hill has been mined since the Roman times and chunks of it have been carved by many artists throughout history.
<p>A leader in bringing psychoanalysis to Britain, Ernest Jones, wrote an essay on the human obsession with salt. He found it to be irrational and subconsciously sexual.</p> <p>"in all ages salt has been invested with significance far exceeding that inherent in its natural properties, interesting and important as these are. Homer calls it a divine substance, Plato describes it as especially dear to the Gods, and we shall presently note the importance attached to it in religious ceremonies, covenants, and magical charms. That this should have been so in all parts of the world and in all times shows that we are dealing with a general human tendency and not with any local custom, circumstance or notion."</p>
Salt is often associated with fertility due the beliefs that mice could reproduce by eating salt, ships laden with salt having many mice, and fish in salty seas having numerous children.
The Romans referred to a man in love salax(the salted state).
In many areas wedding couples used salt to defend against impotence.
Many groups involved abstinence from salt at certain times for sexual reasons. These include Dayak tribesman, Egyptian priests, Pima, and Nagin women.
In 1925 the Diamond Crystal Salt Company published its <a href=https://archive.lib.msu.edu/DMC/sliker/msuspcsbs_diam_diamondcry4/msuspcsbs_diam_diamondcry4.pdf>"One Hundred and One Uses for Diamond Crystal Salt"</a>
Mathew 5:13 "You are the salt of the  earth. But if the salt loses its saltiness, how can it be made salty again? It is no longer good for anything, except to be thrown out and  trampled underfoot."
The modern salt industry claims the substance has more than 14,000 uses.
Without salt the human body is incapable of respiration, digestion, moving muscles, and transporting nutrients, oxygen, and nerve impulses.
An adult humans contains, on average, 250 grams of salt.
"It is a covenant of salt forever, before the Lord" -the Torah
"The Lord God of Israel gave the kingdom over Israel to David forever, even to him, and to his sons, by a covenant of salt" - the Torah
Judaism involves dipping bread in salt on the Sabbath.
Indian troops used salt to pledge loyalty to the British.
In many cultures bread and salt are associated as the blessing and its preserver.
During the middle ages, northern European farmers defended against the ergot fungus by soaking their crops in a salt brine.
Dairy salt is a salt product used in the preparation of butter and cheese products that serves to add flavor and act as a food preservative.
Salt has been used to ward off spirits in several cultures throughout history.
Christian baptism is believed to have been predated by the European practice of bathing of infants in saltwater or putting salt on their tongues.
Salt has historically been a source of concern over how handling it improperly would cause various maladies.
The Masia meet their salt needs by drinking the blood of their herds.
Salt deficiency causes headaches, weakness, light-headedness, and nausea before death.
Agricultural societies traded for salt to make up for what they didn't receive from their crops. How they understood the need in unclear as salt deprivation does not involve a craving for it.
All animals require salt, but while carnivores get it from their prey herbivores have to forage for natural sources.
Reindeer approached human settlements in order to get the salt from their urine. This helped humans to keep them as a source of meat despite the fact that they proved too difficult to domesticate.
Asiatic wolf cubs could be fed and trained using substances including salt.
The domestication of several animals has been key to agricultural societies and their salt consumption.
Agricultural societies led salt to becoming the first substance of international trade.
The Romans, French, Chinese, Hapsburgs, and Venetians taxed salt to fund their wars.
In "The Wealth of Nations" Adam Smith writes of the use of various substances as currency such as salt, but he argues for metal currency and its durability.
The Russian salt tax led to the Moscow uprising of 1648.
Manistee, Michigan is home to the world's largest salt plant, owned by Morton Salt.
Pickling without salt is possible, but it posses the risk of producing alcohol instead of the desired substance.
During the American Civil War, the Confederacy had insufficient salt. This is responsible for the Southern practice of operating captured saltworks in contrast with the Northern practice of destroying them.
Historically, salt has been of great strategic importance during times of war. Without salt meat will spoil before it reaches the armies and saltpeter was required for the production of gunpowder.
Salt mines are being considered for the storage of nuclear waste.
The United States has an emergency reserve of petroleum in salt domes in the gulf of Mexico area.
The Morton Salt company transformed the salt industry by making the controversial change to a uniform grain size and shape.
While iodine is a necessary nutrient, requiring it has been used in some areas to give large salt companies an advantage over the small ones unable to afford the addition.
Iodine deficiency is a serious medical problem that is prevented in many areas by adding it to salt.
In mineral exploration, salting is the process of adding gold or silver to an ore sample to change the value of the ore with intent to deceive potential buyers of the mine.
The salting of the earth or sowing with salt is the practice of spreading salt on conquered cities. It is a purely symbolic effort due to the large mass of salt required to make the soil unusable.
A salted bomb is a nuclear weapon designed to function as a radiological weapon, producing enhanced quantities of radioactive fallout, rendering a large area uninhabitable.
The Salt of the Earth is a phrase referring to people who are thoroughly decent.
The Empire Zinc strike, also known as the Salt of the Earth strike, was a 15-month-long miners' strike in New Mexico against the Empire Zinc Company for its racist pay and housing practices.
Salt of the Earth (1954 film), a film based on the Empire Zinc Strike. It is one of the first pictures to advance the feminist social and political point of view.
Salar de Uyuni, the world's largest salt flat, contains 40% to 70% of the world's known lithium reserves
Palacio de Sal(Spanish for "Palace of salt"), is a hotel built of salt blocks on the edge of Salar de Uyuni(the world's largest salt flat).
The Bonneville Salt Flats is the largest of many salt flats located west of the Great Salt Lake. It is known for its land speed records.
The Great Salt Lake, located in the northern part of the U.S. state of Utah, is the largest salt water lake in the Western Hemisphere, and the eighth-largest terminal lake in the world. It is the last remainder of Lake Bonneville.
Different metallic salts can elicit all five basic tastes, e.g., salty (sodium chloride), sweet (lead diacetate, which will cause lead poisoning if ingested), sour (potassium bitartrate), bitter (magnesium sulfate), and umami or savory (monosodium glutamate).
Sodium Chloride melts at 801 degrees Celsius.
The Old Salt Route was a medieval trade route in northern Germany, one of the ancient network of salt roads which were used primarily for the transport of salt and other staples.
Salting roads is the second major application for salt. Road salt can end up in fresh-water bodies and have the unwanted effect of causing harm to aquatic plants and animals by disrupting their osmoregulation ability.
Many microorganisms cannot live in an overly salty environment: water is drawn out of their cells by osmosis. For this reason salt is used to preserve some foods, such as smoked bacon, fish, or cabbage.
Salt is added to food, either by the food producer or by the consumer, as a flavor enhancer, preservative, binder, fermentation-control additive, texture-control agent and color developer.
Saline, also known as saline solution, is a mixture of sodium chloride in water and has a number of uses in medicine including cleaning wounds, removing contact lenses, helping dry eyes, intravenously treating dehydration caused by gastroenteritis and diabetic ketoacidosis, and diluting some medicines given by injection.
Sodium chloride is the principle extinguishing agent in some fire extinguishers. The salt acts like a heat sink, dissipating heat from the fire, and also forms an oxygen excluding crust to smother the fire.
Since at least medieval times, people have used salt as a cleansing agent rubbed on household surfaces. It is also used in many brands of shampoo, toothpaste and popularly to de-ice driveways and patches of ice.
Salt has been used in optical components (windows and prisms) operating in that spectral range, where few non-absorbing alternatives exist and where requirements for absence of microscopic inhomogeneities are less strict than in the visible range.
Salt tectonics is a field concerned with the geometries and processes associated with the presence of significant amounts of rock salt.
Halite, commonly known as rock salt, is a type of salt occurring in vast beds of sedimentary material resulting from the drying up of bodies of water.
Metallic salts give the color to fireworks.
Kosher salt is coarse edible salt without common additives such as iodine.
Natron is a naturally occurring salt based substance known for its use in mummification in ancient Egypt.
Rogers Dry Lake is an endorheic desert salt pan in the Mojave Desert of Kern County, California. It has been the location of many of the United States' aeronautical achievements.
The landings of the Space Shuttle were originally done on the Rogers Dry Lake (a salt lake in California).
The world's largest compass rose is painted on the Rogers Dry Lake (a salt lake in California).
Chuck Yeager broke the sound barrier on October 14, 1947, at an altitude of 13,700 meters above the Rogers Dry lake (a salt lake in California).
Lake Peigneur is a salt lake in Louisiana known for a drilling disaster in 1980. The Diamond Crystal Salt Company had been operating a salt mine beneath the lake when Texaco began drilling for oil there. A miscalculation caused the drilling rig to dig into one of the mine shafts and release water from the lake above. The lake rapidly drained into the mine along with 11 barges and a tugboat. Salt water from the Gulf of Mexico created the largest waterfall in Louisiana as it refilled the lake.
SALT I is the common name for the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks Agreement signed on May 26, 1972 by the United States and the Soviet Union. SALT I froze the number of strategic ballistic missile launchers at existing levels and provided for the addition of new submarine-launched ballistic missile (SLBM) launchers only after the same number of older intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) and SLBM launchers had been dismantled.
SALT II was a series of talks between United States and Soviet negotiators from 1972 to 1979 which sought to curtail the manufacture of strategic nuclear weapons.
The poet and politician Pablo Neruda wrote the poem <a href=https://allpoetry.com/poem/14326622-Ode-To-Salt-by-Pablo-Neruda>"Ode to Salt"</a> as a part of his book "Elemental Odes"
The salt titanium dioxide is a popular pigment and possible carcinogen used in a wide range of applications and accounts for almost 2/3 of all the pigments produced globally.
